.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH MARUKU 1 "May 27, 2007"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
maruku \- converts markdown files to various output
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B maruku 
.I [options] [file1.md [file2.md ...]]


.SH DESCRIPTION

.B maruku 
is a markdown interpreter: it accepts files written in the
markdown language and transforms them into HTML, TeX of PDF (using
pdflatex). If no file is given on the command-line, 
.B maruku
acts as a filter and converts standard input to standard output.

.PP

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-[no\-]verbose\fR
Run verbosely
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-[no\-]unsafe\fR
Use unsafe features
.TP
\fB\-b\fR
Break on error
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-math\-images\fR ENGINE
Uses ENGINE to render TeX to PNG.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-math\-engine\fR ENGINE
Uses ENGINE to render MathML
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR FILE
Output filename
.TP
\fB\-\-pdf\fR
Creates PDF output using pdflatex. Please see the 
.B NOTE
below.
.TP
\fB\-\-s5\fR
Write S5 slideshow
.TP
\fB\-\-html\fR
Write HTML output.
.TP
\fB\-\-html\-frag\fR
Write the contents of the BODY.
.TP
\fB\-\-tex\fR
Write LaTeX
.TP
\fB\-\-inspect\fR
Shows the parsing result
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Show version

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR marutex (1)
.BR pdflatex (1).

.SH NOTE

An important note for debian users: to prevent a lightweight library
such as 
.I libmaruku-ruby 
to pull in heavy dependencies like 
.IR texlive ,
.I libmaruku-ruby
does not depend on 
.I texlive 
(but only recommends it). This means that
if you do not install 
.IR texlive , 
you will not have PDF output.


.SH AUTHOR
maruku was written by Andrea Censi <andrea@rubyforge.org>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Vincent Fourmond <fourmond@debian.org>,
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
